
The Extracted Folder contains one directory, named as server and files called client.cpp and index.html. 

The Server directory contains all the code and files corresponding to the server. Along with this, files folder contains cls.js which can be used for GET/PUT

The Client code is present in the client.cpp file.

For running the server we must execute the server.cpp file present in the server folder.
For running the client we must compile and execute the client.cpp file present in the current folder.

We can do all this compiling with makefile
as: "make"


The code works in the following manner: 

The client can invoke either the local server or any of the intranet servers for either sending files to those servers or receiving files from them. 
There is a local server to which the client can send/receive files, but for the intranet servers, files can only be received from them. 
The client cannot upload a file on those servers.
The requests sent here are http requests and have a specific format. For any other request than the valid http request, the
server does not respond. The server is set around an infinite loop and needs to be interrupted
with a terminal signal before it stops.

There is also a makefile that compiles the entire code and generates all executable files. After running the makefile, the following executable files are created:
1. client in the directory named Client
2. server in the directory named Server

Steps to execute server:
1.. run make
2. Then for running the executable we must must give the PORT no for the server
3. The format of command is ./server portno
Now server is started.

For starting the client:
1. run make
2. To run the executable write command in the format-- ./client hostname port GET/PUT filename

The hostname specifies the server name/IP address(preferred) to which the client has requested a connection from.
The port specifies the port number through which a connection is requested. 
GET/PUT stands for whether the client wants to upload a file to the server or wants to retrieve a file from the
server. 
The filename specifies the name of the file that is requested by the client.

You can GET the  index.html or s.gif file  present in the server directory using GET request
Similarly you can send the index.html file to the server directory usig PUT request

Code handles binary as well as text files as well as folder/file kind of paths.
